README.md, before:

# Machine Learning for Requirements Engineering
![GitHub last commit](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/jdm4pku/ml4re)

This repository contains a curated list of papers, datasets, and tools that are devoted to research on Machine Learning for Requirements Engineering. 

This repository is referred to [saltudelft/ml4se](https://github.com/saltudelft/ml4se). Next, I will keep adding papers I read、datasets and tools. 

Welcome to send a pull request to add papers and relevant content.

## Content
- [Papers](#papers)
  - [Surveys](#surveys)
- [PhD Theses](#phd-theses)
- [Talks](#talks)
- [Datasets](#datasets)
- [Tools](#tools)
- [Research Groups](#research-groups)
- [Venues](#venues)

# Papers

## Survey

# PhD Theses


# Talks

- **人机物融合背景下的需求工程**, CNCC 2023 [[video]](hhttps://dl.ccf.org.cn/video/videoDetail.html?id=6700020661831680&_state=&_ack=1)

# Datasets


# Tools

# Research Groups

- [Jin Zhi](https://scholar.google.com.hk/citations?user=ZC7SObAAAAAJ&hl=zh-CN), Peking University
- [Shi Lin](https://people.ucas.edu.cn/~shilin?language=en), Beihang University

# Venues

## Conferences
- **ICSE**, the International Conference on Software Engineering
- **FSE**, Symposium on the Foundations of Software Engineering
- **ASE**, the International Conference on Automated Software Engineering
- **RE**, the International Conference on Requirements Engineering
- **MSR**, the Mining Software Repositories conference
- **ICPC**, the International Conference on Program Comprehension
- **ISSTA**, the International Symposium on Software Testing and Analysis
- **ICLR**, the International Conference on Learning Representations
- **ICML**, the International Conference on Machine Learning
- **ICMLA**, the International Conference on Machine Learning and Applications
- **AAAI**, the Association for the Advancement of Artificial
Intelligence 
- **ACL**, the Association for Computational Linguistics
- **OOPSLA**, the ACM Conference on Systems, Programming, Languages, and Applications

## Journals
- **TSE**, the IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering
- **TOSEM**, ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology
- **JSS**, Journal of Systems and Software
- **EMSE**, Journal of Empirical Software Engineering

Commit message:

add human aspect,modeling and Prioritization

README.md, after:

# Machine Learning for Requirements Engineering
![GitHub last commit](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/jdm4pku/ml4re)

This repository contains a curated list of papers, datasets, and tools that are devoted to research on Machine Learning for Requirements Engineering. 

This repository is referred to [saltudelft/ml4se](https://github.com/saltudelft/ml4se). Next, I will keep adding papers I read、datasets and tools. 

Welcome to send a pull request to add papers and relevant content.

## Content
- [Papers](#papers)
  - [Human Aspects](#human-aspects)
  - [Requirements Modeling](#requirements-modeling)
  - [Requirements Prioritization](#requirements-prioritization)
  - [Surveys](#surveys)
- [PhD Theses](#phd-theses)
- [Talks](#talks)
- [Datasets](#datasets)
- [Tools](#tools)
- [Research Groups](#research-groups)
- [Venues](#venues)

# Papers

## Human Aspects

- **The Influence of Human Aspects on Requirements Engineering-related Activities: Software Practitioners' Perspective** (2021), TOSEM 2023. [[pdf]](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2109.07868.pdf)

## Requirements Modeling

- **Model Transformation Development Using Automated Requirements Analysis, Metamodel Matching, and Transformation by Example** (2022), TOSEM 2022. [[pdf]](https://dl.acm.org/doi/pdf/10.1145/3471907) 

## Requirements Prioritization

- **Uncertainty-wise Requirements Prioritization with Search** (2021), TOSEM 2021. [[pdf]](https://dl.acm.org/doi/pdf/10.1145/3408301).




## Survey

# PhD Theses


# Talks

- **人机物融合背景下的需求工程**, CNCC 2023 [[video]](hhttps://dl.ccf.org.cn/video/videoDetail.html?id=6700020661831680&_state=&_ack=1)

# Datasets

- [RALIC](http://www0.cs.ucl.ac.uk/staff/S.Lim/soolinglim/Datasets.html#ralic):  The dataset contains data of stakeholders and their requirements. It can be used to assess requirements priorities and dependencies.

- [Word](https://sites.google.com/site/mrkarim/data-sets): The dataset has 50 requirements and 81 requirements dependencies. It can be used to assess requirements priorities and dependencies.

- [ReleasePlanner](https://sites.google.com/site/mrkarim/data-sets): This publicly accessible dataset has 25
requirements and 39 dependencies. 


# Tools

# Research Groups

- [Jin Zhi](https://scholar.google.com.hk/citations?user=ZC7SObAAAAAJ&hl=zh-CN), Peking University, requirements engineering and software automation.
- [Shi Lin](https://people.ucas.edu.cn/~shilin?language=en), Beihang University, crowd requirements engineering.

- [John Grundy](https://sites.google.com/site/johncgrundy/), Monash University, Human Aspects of RE. 

# Venues

## Conferences
- **ICSE**, the International Conference on Software Engineering
- **FSE**, Symposium on the Foundations of Software Engineering
- **ASE**, the International Conference on Automated Software Engineering
- **RE**, the International Conference on Requirements Engineering
- **MSR**, the Mining Software Repositories conference
- **ICPC**, the International Conference on Program Comprehension
- **ISSTA**, the International Symposium on Software Testing and Analysis
- **ICLR**, the International Conference on Learning Representations
- **ICML**, the International Conference on Machine Learning
- **ICMLA**, the International Conference on Machine Learning and Applications
- **AAAI**, the Association for the Advancement of Artificial
Intelligence 
- **ACL**, the Association for Computational Linguistics
- **OOPSLA**, the ACM Conference on Systems, Programming, Languages, and Applications

## Journals
- **TSE**, the IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering
- **TOSEM**, ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology
- **JSS**, Journal of Systems and Software
- **EMSE**, Journal of Empirical Software Engineering
